# Proposal

## Description

Our proposal for this project is a web application called OneUp that aims to expose young skateboard talent through crowdsource curation. The app will essentially be a video database of user uploaded skate clips that are curated by upvotes and downvotes from other users. We hope to create a space where great skaters can surface up democratically, powered by those who know and love skating. Skaters are constantly hoping to get noticed by established brands for potential sponsorships, and OneUp will serve as the middleman for this process. Besides serving the committed skater, anyone who simply enjoys watching skate videos will have a place to watch the top clips and have a say in which video/skater should be noticed. 
  
In addition, several main features will be necessary to efficiently execute our goal. For instance, the videos will be categorized by type of skating -- street, transition, or vert skating. Users will have their own profiles containing their uploaded and upvoted videos. Any of these videos may also be shared through a link that leads back to the site. Along with several other functions, we believe React.js, MongoDB, and Node.js will be necessary to build out these features (open for change). Overall, we believe OneUp will allow skaters to continue pursuing their passion and can possibly change the current form of skateboard media.

## Justification

OneUp has massive potential to be a practical application for the skate industry that sees little innovation. Since the beginning of skateboarding, professional skaters have only been discovered through three main ways: physically sending in clips to brand names, winning competitions, or gaining a large following on social media. OneUp can be an avenue to make that process much more efficient.
 
Not only do we believe in the potential of this project, but it is feasible for the length of the semester given that we are only a small team of three. More importantly, we see this project as a challenge that will give us a chance to apply knowledge from several of our previous courses. Concepts from CMSI 370 (Interaction Design) will help us build and design the front end web app, CMSI 486 (Intro to Databases) will guide us through creating multiple databases to store videos, and CMSI 387 (Operating Systems) taught us concepts relating to servers and processes handling multiple user requests. These three main courses will give us the tools to be able to implement a 3 tier architecture that includes a front end, web server, and a back end. However, we still expect to face technical challenges due to our little experience working with the complexities of a full stack web application. We are eager to learn how to handle these technical difficulties and have confidence that all of the components of our project are within the scope of what we have learned in our curriculum. Overall, the idea is relatively straightforward, but must be implemented correctly in order to impact the skate community. 
